Security ---> most imp whitepaper

What is cloud computing? --> on-demand compute and storage capacity, pay-as-you-go model.

6 Advantages of cloud -->
  1. trade capital expense for variable expense
  2. benfit from massive economics of scale
  3. stop guessing about capacity
  4. increase speed and agility
  5. stop spending money in running and managing data centers
  6. Go global in minutes

Data Center Security --> 
  Done as per national authorized standards. Guards, survelliance, etc.
  Various security compliance (HIPAA, CSA, MPAA)
  

1. Shared Responsibility model -->
    AWS responsible for Infrastructure security
    User responsible for what they put on infrastructure
    
Need to understand 
  AWS security responsibility -->
  Customer security responsibility -->
  

2. Storage Decomission --> How AWS takes care of data security when storage device life is over.
      All decomissioned magnetic storage devices are degaussed and physically destroyed as per industry standards.

3. Network Security --> 
      Transmission protection --> 
          1. user can access AWS resources over HTTP or HTTPs using protocols SSL/TLS, cryptographic prolocols to protect against any harm.
          2. for additional layer of security user can use VPC that gives ability to use IPsec VPN to provide encrypted tunnel between 
                AWS VPC and data center.
      
      Amazon Corporate Segregation -->
          Logically AWS production network is segregated from Amazon coporate network.
   
   Network monitoring and protection -->
      1. IP Spoofing --> due to AWS secure firewall, An instance can't send traffic other than its own IP.
            If needed customer can request in adavance about vulnerability scan to meet compliance requirement.
  
  AWS credentials -->
      password, MFA, Access Key, Key-pair, etc
      
 AWS Trusted Advisor --> 
    makes recommendation about opportunities to save money (cost optimization), improve system performance, close security gaps and 
        fault tolerance.
 
 Instance Isolation -->
    Different Instances running on same physical machine are isolated from each other via the Xen Hypervisor. Also, AWS firewall 
        resides within the Hypervisor layer, between physical network interface and instance's virtual interface.
        
    Customer instnaces has no access to raw disk devices, but instead presented with virtualized disks.
    
    Guest Operating System --> Virtual instnaces are completely controlled by customer, OS, antivirus or any application on machine.
    Firewall --> Amazon EC2 instance provides complete firewall protection, by default deny-all traffic. Cutomer explicitely specify
        allowed ports.
    Encryption --> is allowed with AES-256 standards. 
    ELB --> SSL termination on ELB is supported. So, that you can use more advanced security like TLS.
        Also, you can get info of client IP address.
    Direct Connect --> is one way to securely transfer data to AWS directly to nearest AWS facility.
          
  Risk and Compliance - Whitpaper
