Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) -->
    makes it easy to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud
    RDS supports Amazon Aurora, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, SQL Server, and PostgreSQL database engines.
    
    RDS manages the work involved in setting up a relational database
    RDS automates common administrative tasks such as performing backups and patching the software 
    With optional Multi-AZ deployments, Amazon RDS also manages synchronous data replication across Availability Zones with automatic 
    failover.
    
    Client is responsible for managing the database settings, schema / DB designing, performance tuning.
    
    Some limitations -->
      RDS for Oracle: 1 database per instance; no limit on number of schemas per database imposed by software
      RDS for SQL Server: 30 databases per instance
      for all other DB's there is no limitation
      RDS instance offline scenarios, maintenance events: this happen as per request or requirement
        >> scale compute operations (requires few min)
        >> required software patching

CreateDBInstance API --> to specify which supported DB engine version I would like my DB instance to run
 ModifyDBInstance --> to request for upgrade (this will happen during next maintainance window)
 
 RDS Billing -->
    >> DB instance hours
    >> Storage (per GB per month)
    >> I/O requests per month
    >> Provisioned IOPS (storage volume) per month
    >> Backup Storage
    >> Data transfer
 
 For some scenario, if you choose to keep your DB instance in single AZ, storage provisioned bill will be for single AZ but back-up
        replicated across multiple Availability Zones and accoringly billed for backup storage.
 
 Reserved Instance --> One or three year reservation option with significant discount
    three RI payment options  -- No Upfront, Partial Upfront, All Upfront
  ** RI benefits --> are purchased for a Region rather than for a specific Availability Zone. As RIs are not specific to an 
        Availability Zone, they are not capacity reservations.
        Capacity Reservation is specific to AZ and hence if your application uses MAZ, then discount applies to account.
        
     AWS automatically apply discount to your usage as per RI.
     Each reservation is associated with the following set of attributes: DB engine, DB instance class, Multi-AZ deployment option, license model and Region.
     you cannot cancel your reserved DB instance in between contract term and the one-time payment (if applicable) is not refundable.
 
 RDS Hardware and Scaling -->
    instance class and storage capacity depends on your application’s compute, memory and storage needs. 
    
    Keep in mind points -->
        Please note that when you modify your DB Instance class or allocated storage, your requested changes will be applied during your
        specified maintenance window. Alternately, you can use the “apply-immediately” flag to apply your scaling requests immediately. 
        Bear in mind that any other pending system changes will be applied as well.
    
    Limitation -->
        Please note that for SQL Server, because of the extensibility limitations of striped storage attached to a Windows Server environment, 
            RDS does not currently support increasing storage. we recommend you to provision storage 
            based on anticipated future storage growth.

Automated Backups and Database Snapshots --> You can identify them using the "automated" Snapshot Type, in description of snapshot.
    automated backup feature --> RDS automatically performs a full daily snapshot of your data and captures transaction logs.
                         -->   can be used for point-in-time recovery.
                         -->  retention period, which by default is 7 days but can be set to up to 35 days.
    DB Snapshots are user-initiated, can eb done as frequently as you wish, and then restore to that specific state at any time.
                --> and are kept until you explicitly delete them.
    
    RDS DB snapshots and automated backups are stored in S3.
    
    Automated backups are deleted when the DB instance is deleted. Only manually created DB Snapshots are retained after the DB Instance is deleted.
    
Security --> 
         DB Subnet Group is a collection of subnets that you may want to designate for your RDS DB Instances in a VPC
         
        for security reasons, Migration of DB Instances from inside to outside VPC is not supported. but vice versa is supported.
        
        A master user account is different from an AWS developer account and used only within the context of Amazon RDS to control access to your DB Instance(s).
            master user account is a native database user account with individual user has their own userID and Password, to access DB.
            
            
            
            
