Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) -->  it supports “push” mechanism

Billing is based on per request basis, pay as you go model.
 
Few common SNS operations -->
  Owner operations:

  CreateTopic – Create a new topic.
  DeleteTopic – Delete a previously created topic.
  ListTopics – List of topics owned by a particular user (AWS ID).
  ListSubscriptionsByTopic – List of subscriptions for a particular topic
  SetTopicAttributes – Set/modify topic attributes, including setting and modifying publisher/subscriber permissions, transports supported, etc.
  GetTopicAttributes – Get/view existing attributes of a topic
  AddPermission – Grant access to selected users for the specified actions
  RemovePermission – Remove permissions for selected users for the specified actions
  
  Subscriber operations:

  Subscribe – Register a new subscription on a particular topic, which will generate a confirmation message from Amazon SNS
  ConfirmSubscription – Respond to a subscription confirmation message, confirming the subscription request to receive notifications from the subscribed topic
  UnSubscribe – Cancel a previously registered subscription
  ListSubscriptions – List subscriptions owned by a particular user (AWS ID)
  
  Publisher operations:

  Publish: Publish a new message to the topic.
  
Topic names should typically be available for reuse approximately 30-60 seconds after the previous topic with the same name has been deleted. 

Imp points to remember -->
Using the SQS console, users should create the SQS queue prior to subscribing it to a SNS Topic. 
Amazon SNS does not currently support forwarding messages to Amazon SQS FIFO queues. You can use SNS to forward messages to standard queues.
SNS for deliveries over HTTP, HTTPS, Email-JSON and SQS transport protocols will consist of a simple JSON object,

Users can receive notifications from Amazon SNS in two ways: 
  In both cases, the owner of the subscription endpoint needs to explicitly opt-in and confirm the subscription by replying to confirmation message sent by Amazon SNS.
    >> Users with AWS IDs:
    >> Other users: Topic owners can subscribe and register end-points on behalf of users without AWS IDs.
    
 Token included in the confirmation message sent to end-points on a subscription request are valid for 3 days.
 
 SNS will sign all notification deliveries using a cryptographically secure, asymmetric mechanism (private-public key pair based on certificates).
   Developers can use this certificate to verify authenticity of SNS.
 
 Although rare, should a failure occur in one zone, the operation of SNS and the durability of your messages continue without disruption. 
 
 SNS messages delivered to your application exactly once, occasional, duplicate messages in case of some network issues.
 
 once a message has been successfully published to a topic, it cannot be recalled. message cant be deleted after being published
 
 If a message cannot be successfully delivered on the first attempt, 
 SNS implements a 4-phase retry policy: 
 1) retries with no delay in between attempts, 
 2) retries with some minimum delay between attempts,
 3) retries with some back-off model (linear or exponential), and 
 4) retries with some maximum delay between attempts. 
 
 Worldwide SMS -->
   SNS supports SMS (text) messages to 200+ countries. You must obtain prior permission from recipients as per national laws.
  
  SNS does not currently support two-way SMS capabilities
  You no longer need to subscribe a phone number to an Amazon SNS topic before you publish messages to it.
  
  By enabling the Delivery Status feature, you can get status of messages.
  
Limitation --> 
Currently, Amazon SNS does not detect whether a phone number is mobile, landline, or VoIP.
 SNS does not currently support time-based or scheduled delivery.
 SNS does not support MMS messages.
 Opt-outs do not unsubscribe a number from an Amazon SNS topic, but rather disable the subscription.

Limits and Restrictions --> 
 SNS offers 10 million subscriptions per topic, and 100,000 topics per account
 SNS messages can contain up to 256 KB of text data
 100 filter policies per account per region can be applied to a topic
 ports supported by cross-region communication between SNS and EC2 --> 80/443/4080/8443
 We currently do not allow an AWS account owner to subscribe (a SNS topic) an AWS Lambda function that belongs to another account. 
 
other pricing points:-
  You may be charged for failed deliveries
  length of a message impact the price I pay

SNS Mobile Push notification --> supported to most popular mobile OS devices. Its mobile pop-up notifications when even app is closed.
  Direct addressing allows you to deliver notifications directly to a single endpoint.
  Direct addressing is currently only available for push notifications endpoints.
  Message attributes --> structured metadata items about the message. Message attributes are optional and separate from message body.

Amazon SNS now allows you to set a TTL (Time to Live) value for each message. default is 4 weeks.

AWS Lambda currently supports 100 concurrent requests per AWS account.
