AWS core services :- 

1. AWS Global Infrastructure:
    i) Regions: contains more than 2 or more AZ
      its geographyical location. 
      every region has differnt services.
      regions are complete seperate entities. Its not easy to move services from one region to another region.
    
      link for region based services:--> https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regional-product-services/
      
      1. optimize latency
      2. minimize cost
      
    ii) Availability zone: 
         collection of data centers within regions.
         every datacenter is isolated to one another but connected with vast low latency network.
    
    iii) Edge Location:
          host Content delivery network - CloudFront Service
          Deliver fast content to customers/end users
          they are also isolated 
          
          
2. AWS VPC (Virtual private cloud):
  A private virtual network on AWS
  Allows complete control of network configuration.
  offers several layers of security controls: complete control on incoming and outgoing traffic
  other security services deploy into VPC
 
 AWS VPC integrates well with AWS other services, like EC2, ELB, S3, EMR, RDS, etc
 
 Features of VPC:
 AWS VPC living within a Region, multiple VPC per account.
 One VPC defines one IP addresses --->  need to confirm this point
 VPC IP address then subdivide into "Subnet" which is used to divide VPC and allows it to span accross multiple AZs
 you have full control to create as many subnet as needed.
 same you can create as many route tables as needed to control the traffic.
 There are 2 types of subnet --> 
      i) public (direct access to internet) --> uses Internet Gateway (IGW)
      ii) private (no direct access to internet) --> uses NAT Gateway
 NACL (Network access control list) --> control access to subnet and stateless
 
 
3. Security Groups: we can create security groups and create roles witin it.
it filtern traffic and allows only from specific ports that you allowed in your roles defination.

4. compute services:
AWS EC2 instances: its nothing but servers, where we need to configure softwares (AMI - Amazon machine image), hardwares, networks, etc.
Need to set-up key pair file in-order to log-in to ec2 instanaces through terminal.

5. AWS Lambda:
Fully managed serverless compute
event driven execution
sub-second metering
multiple languages supported

6. AWS Elastic Beanstalk:-- PaaS service
     Its a PaaS (platform as a service)
     It allows quick deployment of your application and reduces management complexity.
     Allows to control as per need
     support various security features
     support various languages
     
     Below are the components of Elastic Beanstalk: --
     Application service
     Http service
     operating system
     language interpreter
     host

7. Application Load Balancer:-- 
    There are 2 types of load balancer in Elastic Load balancer:
        1) Classic Load balancer
        2) Network Load Balancer
        3) Application Load Balancer: It basically allows different request to applications based on port number for same EC2 instances.
                Different containers has different port number for allow request.

 8. Elastic load Balacer: which is nothing but Classic Load balancer
        it also allows you to balance TCP requests. 
        Health Threashould = 10, means, it will test server 10 successful consecutive times to test the connection 
                            before considering it as healthy instance.
        Unhealthy Threashould = 2, means if you consecutive connection test was unscuccessful then consider it as unhealthy instance.
        
 9. Auto Scaling:-- 
        It ensures the availability of needed EC2 instaces based on load of your application at any given time.
        it ensures to make your environment scalable and automate is as much as possible.
        
        Scaling Out --> initiate / launch new EC2 instance
        Scaling In --> terminate EC2 instance.
        
        Steps:--
        Launch Configuration ---> Auto scaling group ---> auto scaling policy
        Need below items for Launch Configuration: (What to deploy)
        AMI
        Instance Type
        Security groups
        Roles
        
        Need below items for Auto Scaling Groups: (where to deploy)
        VPCs and Subnet
        Load Balancer
        Minimum Instances
        Maximum Instances
        Desired Capacity
        
        Need below items for Auto Scaling policy: (when to deploy)
        Scheduled
        On-Demand
        Scale-out policy
        Scale-In policy
        
  10. Elastic Block Size: Its deciding about SSD (Solid state drive) vs HDD (Hard Disk Drive)
            Its all about performance, storage, pricing and reliability.
            SSD is overall better in performance and reliability but HDD is cheaper.
            So for back-up or sometime usage HDD is preferable, while for fast performance SSD.
            
  11. AWS S3 --> Simple Storage Service
            Stores virtually unlimited number of objects.
            Access anytime, anywhere
            Rich Secuirty controls
            
            We basically create bucket and copy file to/from buckets.
  
  12. AWS Glacier --> Data Archiving Solution
        Long term storage at low cost
        Highly durable
        Access limited to vault policy
        
        Archive ---> Any objects, like photo, video, files
        Vault ----> its a container for storage. 
        Vault Access Policy --> who can access and what operations can be performed.
        
        
        
