1. Pay as you go model
2. pay less for reserve
3. pay less as you grow more

AWS CloudFormation: an easy way to create a collection of related AWS resources and provision them in an orderly and predictable fashion.
provision meaning:- supply or provide specific actions in advance.

three fundamental characteristics you pay for with AWS: compute, storage, and data transfer out

Free Inbound Data Transfer
There is no charge for inbound data transfer across all Amazon Web Services in all regions. 
There are no outbound data transfer charges between Amazon Web Services within the same region.

Some pricing fundamentals for different AWS services:
1. EC2 --> 
    1. charges based on clock of server timing --> For example, from the time Amazon EC2 instances are launched until they are terminated, 
    or from the time Elastic IPs are allocated until the time they are de-allocated.
    2. Based on EC2 configuration --> AWS region, OS, number of cores, and memory.
    3. Machine (EC2) Purchase Type --> pay-as-you-Go, reserve, spot instances.
    4. Number of Instances –-> plan before hand based on load expectation.
    5. Load Balancing –-> The number of hours the ELB runs and the amount of data it processes
    6. Detailed Monitoring --> Using CloudWatch, basic is free, but detailed is paid services based on some monthly or hourly rates.
    7. Auto Scaling --> This service is available at no additional charge beyond Amazon CloudWatch fees.
    8. Elastic IP Addresses --> You can have one Elastic IP (EIP) address associated with a running instance at no charge.
    9. Operating Systems and Software Packages --> OS prices included in EC2 instance prices but commercial software license prices 
    are seperate  and individual.
    
2. Simple Storage Service (S3) --> 
  1. Storage Class --> two types
      1. Standard Infrequent access --> slightly lower cost
      2. Standard access --> regular cost
  2. storage --> The number and size of objects stored in S3
  3. Requests --> number and type of requests. GET requests incur charges at different rates than other requests, 
    such as PUT and COPY requests.
  4. Data Transfer – The amount of data transferred out of the Amazon S3 region.

3. Amazon EBS --> provides block level storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances.Amazon EBS volumes are off-instance storage 
that persists independently from the life of an instance. They are analogous to virtual disks in the cloud. Amazon EBS provides 
three volume types: General Purpose (SSD), Provisioned IOPS (SSD), and Magnetic. The three volume types differ in performance 
characteristics and cost, so you can choose the right storage performance and price for the needs of your applications.
  1. Volumes – Volume storage is charged by the amount you provision in GB per month
  2. Input Output Operations per Second (IOPS)
  3. EBS snapshots -- back up snapshots of your data to Amazon S3 for durable recovery, added cost is per GB-month
  4. Data Transfer – Inbound data transfer is free, and outbound data transfer charges are tiered.
  
  Amazon RDS -->
    1. Clock Hours of Server Time
    2. Database Characteristics – Database characteristics vary depending on the database engine, size, and memory class.
    3. Database Purchase Type –
        1. On-Demand DB Instances, pay for compute capacity for each hour
        2. Reserved DB Instances, you can make a low, one-time, up-front payment
    4. Number of Database Instances –
    5. Provisioned Storage – There is no additional charge for backup storage of up to 100% of your provisioned database storage for an 
        active DB Instance. After the DB Instance is terminated, backup storage is billed per gigabyte per month.
    6. Additional Storage – is billed per gigabyte per month.
    7. Requests – The number of input and output requests to the database.
    8. Deployment Type – Storage and I/O charges vary, depending on the number of Availability Zones you deploy to.
    9. Data Transfer – Inbound data transfer is free, and outbound data transfer costs are tiered.


Amazon CloudFront --> easy way to distribute content to end users with low latency, high data transfer speeds, and 
    no required minimum commitments.
    1. Traffic Distribution – Data transfer and request pricing vary across geographic regions, and 
        pricing is based on the edge location through which your content is served.
2. Requests – The number and type of requests (HTTP or HTTPS) made and the geographic region in which the requests are made.
3. Data Transfer Out – The amount of data transferred out of your Amazon CloudFront edge locations.
