IAM is not Region specific. Its a global.

Root Account: is the AWS account that you setup at first time Sign-in. It has complete Admin Access.
New Users: we can create new users and every new user is asigned with Access Key ID and secret Access key.
Password: Access Key ID and Secret Access key is not login-id and password to access consol. Thats why we need to setup password.
     Although, we can use Access Key ID and Secret access key to connect throgh API or CLI or SDKs.

Users: Individual userid who can perform some action
Groups: Collection of users, on which we can allocate policies or Roles at one shot.
Role: Collection of policies bundled together as per need.
Policy Documents: Its a JSON doc, with details about Individual permissions of different services. (rule and regulations, what is allowed and what not). 
                  It is universal and can be applied directly to users, groups and Roles. 

Multifactor Authentication is recommended always.

Federation: combinig list of users from one domain and join it (federate it) to list of users of another domain like (facebook, google, active directory).
Identity Broker: service that allows you to take an identity from one domain and join to another domain.
Identity Store: Google, facebook.
Identities: A User of a service provider like google.

Q: Can you authenticate using AD and What type of Authetication would to do so??
A: Yes, using SAML (Security Assertion Mark-up Language). SAML basically provides temporary security credential to sign-on to AWS.

Q: Whether you first authenticate with AD or you first provide temporary security credentials.
A: First you authenticate from AD and then you provide temporary security credentials.

You can try this using FB or Google credentials at below link:
Web Identity Federation Playground --> https://web-identity-federation-playground.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html

Steps how it works:

1. you provide or login using your FB or Google userid and password
2. you will receive one temporary access token that will have some expiry time frame. 
    means you need to generate new token once it gets expire.
3. Then using that token you can obtain temporary secuirty credentials. This is done by clicking "Call AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity" button.
Important thing to remember is RoleArn --> Role Amazon Resource Name
4. Then you can perform all allowed actions.











