S3 (Simple storage Service)
Secure, durable, scalable, object storage.

Object based vs Block Based:
Object based: (S3) means storage for text files, photo files, video files, log files, etc.
Block Based: (EBS - Elastic Block Storage, volumes like HDD, SDD) This is mostly used for OS installation, DB Installation, etc.

S3 basic points to remember:
1. S3 stirage is object based
2. it allows to store files of size 0 bytes to 5 TB.
3. Storage is unlimited. 
4. S3 bucket is nothing but folders, S3 bucket name is globally unique. Means S3 bucket names shoudl be unique across all regions.
5. Whenever we create bucket, AWS creates a DNS for it, which looks like below:
https://s3-region-name.amazonaws.com/bucket_name
for example:-- https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru
6. Whenever S3 bucket file upload was successfull, user will receive 200 code as successful HTTP upload response.

Data Consistency model for S3:
1. Read after Write consistency for PUT request of new objects
2. Eventually consistent (can take upto few seconds to propogate) for overwrite PUTs and DELETEs. Means for any update or delete request.

Very very important::
Updates in S3 are atomic updates.
Atomic updates: means when ever you update anything on S3, you will either get new data or old data. 
      you will never get partially updated data.

S3 is simple Key, Value store
Key: Object Name
Value: Data, made up of sequence of bytes
Version ID: for versioning
meta-data: data about data
Subresources:
      1. Access control List and bucket policies: it consist of permission details related to files or buckets
      2. Torrent: S3 supports bit-torrent protocols

Some design related scenarios and questions:
Exam Question: how to optimize S3 if we storing files every second, and reading those files.
Answer: As we know S3 stores objects files based on object name and sort them in alphabatical order. 
            So, if we can add some random alphabates at the start of each file, that will help S3 to sort and distribute objects 
            and imporve performance.

---------- important S3 features -----------
S3 tiered storage: 
life cycle management:
versioning:
encryption:
security:

S3 - storage tieres/classes:-
1. S3 standard --> highly durable (11X 9's), highly available (99.99%). concurrent facility fault talarant (2).
2. S3 - IA (Infrequent Access) --> less frequently access but access requires rapid response. concurrent facility fault talarant (2).
3. Reduced Redundency Storage --> durability and availability (99.99%). little less durable in case of system failure. 
          use case screnario: objects which are ok to be lost in case of failure or due to some unknown risk, because data can be lost
          as less redundency. concurrent facility fault talarant (1).
4. Glacier --> very cheap, used for archival only. Need 4-5 hours to retrive.

S3 - pricing:
1. for storage
2. for each access/ update request
3. storage management pricing
4. Data Transfer pricing
5. Transfer Acceleration: its a service that allows users to accelerate speed of there data flowing accross globe with speed using 
      AWS edge location, CloudFront technology.
 
S3 FAQs very important.

S3 Encryption:
1. Client Side Encryption
2. Server Side Encryption
      1. Server Side Encryption with Amazon S3 Managed Keys (SSE-S3)
      2. Server Side Encryption with KMS {Managed Keys/ Key Manages Service} (SSE-KMS)
      3. Server side encryption with customer provided keys (SSE-C)
3. Control Access to Buckets using either ACL (Access Control List) or Bucket policies
4. By default buckets and objects stored in buckets are private.

Important Exam Question:
Q: Static Website hosting name within S3 bucket:
http://bucket-name.s3-website-region-name.amazonaws.com

for example: http://acloudguru.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com

Q: what exactly you can do with static website hosting.
A: you can only have static html pages. you can't do dynamic website scripting like PHP, .net, etc.


S3 - Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
as name specified, this is used to access data between different services.
Q: What to do if one Domain Name (DNS) trying to interact with another Domain Name (DNS) and unable to make connection??
A: Enable CORS for the Domain which is trying to iteract.

S3 objects versioning:
1. stores all versions of an objects, including writes and delete
2. great back-up tool
3. once enabled versioning can't be disabled, it only can suspended.
4. Integrate with life cycle rules
5. we can use MFA for deleting an objects.



