SWF (Simple Workflow Service):
 >>  This service makes it easy to co-ordinate work across distributed application components. 
 >>  This is managed based upon terms like tasks, workers, deciders, domains, brokers
 >>  workers and deciders can run on EC2 or any firewall secured machines 
 >>  SWF maintains the application's state durably, workers and deciders run independently, and scale quickly.
 >>  max TTL (time to live) for SWF workflow is 1 year (value is always mesured in seconds)
  
  tasks --> individuals jobs assiged to workers
  Workers --> program scripts that interact with SWF to get tasks, work on it and return results (completed or pending).
  Decider --> controls the coordination of tasks. means ordering (need to process in specific order), 
      concurrency (which tasks can be performed in parallel), scheduling as per application logic.
  Brokers --> are the programs that manages the interaction between workers and deciders. updates decider programs about the progress of 
                each task. It ensures that task is assiged only once and never duplicated.
  Domain (containers) --> isolates set of types (workflows), executions and task lists from others within the same account. This can be 
  done at management consol or using CLI with RegisterDomain parameter of SWF API
  
  
Exam Tips:
SWF vs SQS
1. SWF presented tasks orieneted API vs SQS presented message orieneted API.
2. SWF assures that a task is assigned only once and its never duplicated, whereas in SQS, need to handle duplicate messages and
    also need to ensure messaged processed only once.
3. SWF keeps track of all the tasks and events in an application, In SQS need to implement application-level tracking logic especially 
    if application uses multiple queue.
4. max TTL (time to live) for SWF is 1 year whereas SQS 12 hours.
5. In exam questions, 
  1. need to think if scenario requires any kind of human interaction then answer is more around --> SWF
  2. if scenario requires longer time frame than 12 hours then --> SWF
  3. if questions has terms like, workers, deciders, domain, etc. --> think of SWF
  

