VPC --> 
  >> virtual Data center on cloud.
  >> consist of IGW (internet Gateways or virtual private gateways), route tables, Network access control lists, subnets, security groups.
  
  1 subnet = 1 AZ
  Security groups are stateful --> means if Inbound is enabled, then outbound is also enabled
  Network Access control List stateless --> but here Inbound or Outbound needs to be enabled seperately


What are the things that we can configure in VPC:
1. Launch instances into a subnet of your choice
2. Assign custom IP address range in each subnet
3. configure route tables between subnets
4. create internet gateway and attach it to our VPC
5. Much better security control over your AWS resources
6. instance security groups
7. Subnet Network access control list (ACLS)

Difference between Default VPC vs Custom VPC
1. Default VPC allows you to directly attach EC2 instances and deploy.
2. Default VPC subnets are public in nature.
3. All EC2 instances has both public and private IP address.

VPC peering:-
in one VPC in one subnet in one EC2 instance --> communicate (using private IP add) ---> another VPC in another subnet in another EC2 instances
Instances behaves as they are in same private network.
VPC don't do transitive peering. Means one VPC commnicate to other only if they have direct link. not via some other VPC.


Important point just for AWS understanding purposes:- 
1. same AZ name (example, us-east-1a) within one account could be different AZ in another account but with same AZ name. Hence, AWS randomize
    AZ's within different account to distribute the traffic.

Exam Tips:
1. The first four IP addresses and the last IP address in each subnet CIDR block are not available for you to use, 
and cannot be assigned to an instance. For example, in a subnet with CIDR block 10.0.0.0/24, 
the following five IP addresses are reserved:
10.0.0.0: Network address.
10.0.0.1: Reserved by AWS for the VPC router.
10.0.0.2: Reserved by AWS. The IP address of the DNS server is always the base of the VPC network range plus two; however, 
we also reserve the base of each subnet range plus two. For VPCs with multiple CIDR blocks, the IP address of the DNS server 
is located in the primary CIDR. For more information, see Amazon DNS Server.
10.0.0.3: Reserved by AWS for future use.
10.0.0.255: Network broadcast address. We do not support broadcast in a VPC, therefore we reserve this address.

Exam Quest:
  >> you can't have multiple IGW (Internet Gateway) attached to one VPC.
  >> you can add default security group to custom VPC or you need to create new security group while lauching EC2 instance within VPC. 
      you can't attach existing security group from other VPC to custome made VPC.
  >> 

