https://acloud.guru/forums/aws-certified-developer-associate/discussion/-L0S2pJ1JmJ8A5DG3nr4/?answer=-L0whd5lr0qu8zpnguVY

As many have said, this exam was quite less "complex" in terms of questions than the Solutions Architect Asc. (also passed).

- Format -

There is a fair mix between single choice and multiple choice. Questions are given in a way where process of elimination can be used. Many are scenario based, but are straightforward with no tricks.

- What to Review -

Here is the list I believe is most worth going over to ensure the highest chance of passing this exam.

IAM- Understand the difference between a user and a role (most times, a role is a better option for auth!) The key here is to use a role in conjunction with other services (S3, DynamoDB, STS, etc). "AssumeRole" is worth review!

S3 - Understand static websites (CORS, changing an index.html file and S3 website URL syntax), S3 security (AES-256, pre-signed URLs, and bucket ACL/Policies), naming schema for best performance and multi-part uploads.

EC2 - Have a grasp of how instances use EBS volumes, snapshots and AMIs (and the encryption of each), metadata, and ELBs (how to do routing troubleshooting).

DynamoDB - No one is joking on this one. It is the most prominent. Read the FAQ. You must understand the read/write calculations, tables, items, attributes, throughput, indexes, etc.

Elastic Beanstalk - Know supported platforms (PHP, etc.) and services offered (EC2, ELBs etc.).

VPC - Understand how to perform simple troubleshooting (ex. Public/Private subnets, NAT instance, EIP).

SQS - Understand visibility timeouts, long polling, etc. at a high level.

SNS - Understand SNS message format, delivery protocols and properties.

SWF - Workers and Deciders at a high level.

Shared Responsibility Model - self explanatory

AWS SDKs - Know what's supported.

Now, if I had to narrow it down, the three biggest topics would be DynamoDB, S3 and IAM (STS and Federation).

Please rate this up if helpful and/or if this is a good representation of what to expect (for those who have taken the exam already). Feel free to add on to this with any questions or content you feel should be included.
