1. SqS data limit is 256 kb and any format

2. SQS can resolve the issue of producer producing fast or consumer consumes slowly (Autoscaling or failover)

3. SQS can at least deliver the message once and support multiple readers and writers interacting with same queues

4. Single SQS can be used by multiple application components without coordinating with each other(scaling out. Your application)

5. SQS can guarantee to deliver the message but not in first in first out if you want you can add sequencing info in the messages so we can rearrange once it is received

6. Always Pulls the data from SQS

7. Visibitytimeout start only when application retrieve the message once it is completed it will be deleted from the queue during the visibilitytimeout window, if app server is failing in between message will not be deleted so another app server can use

8. If SQS is filling fast we can do autoscaling n reduce the size of the sqs

9. 12 hours of Visibility timeout

10. Biiing is based on 64kb chunks

11. 1 million SQS is free and 0.50$ after 1 million per message

12. Single request can have 1 to 10 message upto 256 kb

13. Standard queue and FIFO queue are there .

14. FIFO is first in first out message and only once

15. Standard queue: maximum throughput, best-effort ordering, at least once delivery

16. FIFO queue: limited throughput, first in first out ordering, exactly once delivered

17. You're charged $0.40 per million requests (after the first million, which is free).

18. Data transferred between Amazon SQS and Amazon EC2 within a single region is free of charge (that is, $0.00 per GB). Data transferred between Amazon SQS and Amazon EC2 in different regions is charged at Internet Data Transfer rates on both sides of the transfer.

19. The messages are pushed into the queue by the producers but pulled out of the queue by the consumers.

20. You have to call the ReceiveMessage action from the consumer in order to get the messages, they are not pushed to you automatically when they arrive.

21. Default time a message stays in the queue I(retention period) is 4 days, maximum is 14 days

22. Default is 30 sec and Max visibility timeout is 12 hr, if you think Default visibility timeout is less and your processing is not completing within that you can change it by calling ChangeMessageVisiblity and specify new value

23. Short polling or standard polling - Short polling polls for the message every time whether queue is empty ,consume cpu and waste extra money but Long polling you can set the Maxlongpollingime to 20 Sec and it will not continuously poll ,it will poll after 20 sec or when gives message if is there in the queue

24. You can Create one SNS topic and create ,subscribe multiple SQS queues to that SNS topic ,basically you can fanned out single message to multiple SQS queues
